<Hit {'abstract_text': "Human illness due to Camplyobacter jejuni infection is closely associated with consumption of poultry products. We previously demonstrated a 50 % shift in allele frequency (phase variation) in contingency gene Cj1139 (wlaN) during passage of C. jejuni NCTC11168 populations through Ross 308 broiler chickens. We hypothesized that phase variation in contingency genes during chicken passage could promote subsequent colonization and disease in humans. To test this hypothesis, we passaged C. jejuni strains NCTC11168, 33292, 81-176, KanR4 and CamR2 through broiler chickens and analysed the ability of passaged and non-passaged populations to colonize C57BL6 IL-10-deficient mice, our model for human colonization and disease. We utilized fragment analysis and nucleotide sequence analysis to measure phase variation in contingency genes. Passage through the chicken reservoir promoted phase variation in five specific contingency genes, and these 'successful' populations colonized mice. When phase variation did not occur in these same five contingency genes during chicken passage, these 'unsuccessful' populations failed to colonize mice. Phase variation during chicken passage generated small insertions or deletions (indels) in the homopolymeric tract (HT) in contingency genes. Single-colony isolates of C. jejuni strain KanR4 carrying an allele of contingency gene Cj0170 with a10G HT colonized mice at high frequency and caused disease symptoms, whereas single-colony isolates carrying the 9G allele failed to colonize mice. Supporting results were observed for the successful 9G allele of Cj0045 in strain 33292. These data suggest that phase variation in Cj0170 and Cj0045 is strongly associated with mouse colonization and disease, and that the chicken reservoir can play an active role in natural selection, phase variation and disease.", 'journal': 'Microbiology (Reading, England)', 'mesh_major': ['Alleles', 'Animals', 'Campylobacter Infections', 'Campylobacter jejuni', 'Chickens', 'Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial', 'Gene Frequency', 'INDEL Mutation', 'Mice', 'Mice, Inbred C57BL', 'Serial Passage', 'Virulence', 'Virulence Factors'], 'pmid': '22343355', 'title': 'Passage of Campylobacter jejuni through the chicken reservoir or mice promotes phase variation in contingency genes Cj0045 and Cj0170 that strongly associates with colonization and disease in a mouse model.', 'year': '2012'}>
<Hit {'abstract_text': 'Systemic release of norepinephrine (NE) is a component of the acute host response to infection, and studies in the field of microbial endocrinology indicate generally that NE increases the bacterial growth rate and promotes invasive disease. However, NE attenuates experimental invasive pneumococcal disease. We determined that NE promoted pneumococcal growth but paradoxically decreased pneumococcal adhesion to host cells. This effect was independent of the classical adhesin CbpA. Microarray analysis indicated that the effect of NE involved two two-component regulatory systems that both regulate expression of the Piu iron uptake ABC transport operon. We propose that NE, a known siderophore, enhances iron availability to the bacteria, resulting in greater bacterial replication and decreased expression of Piu operon products. Downregulation of the operon includes decreased expression of the Piu-associated adhesin PiuD. Our results suggested that the iron-dependent inhibitory effect of NE on pneumococcal adherence is a mechanism underlying the amelioration of pneumococcal disease by NE. ', 'journal': 'Microbiology (Reading, England)', 'mesh_major': ['Bacterial Adhesion', 'Epithelial Cells', 'Gene Expression Profiling', 'Iron', 'Microarray Analysis', 'Norepinephrine', 'Signal Transduction', 'Streptococcus pneumoniae'], 'pmid': '23963302', 'title': 'Catecholamine norepinephrine diminishes lung epithelial cell adhesion of Streptococcus pneumoniae by binding iron.', 'year': '2013'}>
<Hit {'abstract_text': 'The pink disease of pineapple, caused by the bacterium Pantoea citrea, is characterized by a dark coloration on fruit slices after canning. A glucose dehydrogenase (Gdh) encoded by the gdhA gene has been implicated in the colour formation activity of P. citrea. In this paper it has been shown that P. citrea contains a second, homologous gdh gene and its product, GdhB, represents the main source of Gdh activity in this organism. Unlike gdhA, gdhB is constitutively expressed during the exponential phase of growth and is induced in stationary phase. A previously isolated chemical mutant, CMC6, which is deficient in Gdh activity and pink disease formation, failed to express gdhB during the stationary phase of growth. The CMC6 mutant can be complemented by a 54 bp DNA fragment located upstream of gdhA. This fragment, which contains an operator-like 11 bp inverted repeat, strongly enhances the expression of gdhA, probably by titrating away a negative effector of its expression. These results illustrate the complex interplay operating between the two gdh genes and emphasize the role of glucose metabolism in the pathway leading to pink disease.', 'journal': 'Microbiology (Reading, England)', 'mesh_major': ['Base Sequence', 'DNA, Bacterial', 'Enterobacteriaceae', 'Fruit', 'Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial', 'Genes, Bacterial', 'Glucose', 'Glucose Dehydrogenases', 'Molecular Sequence Data', 'Plant Diseases', 'Sequence Analysis, DNA', 'Transcription, Genetic'], 'pmid': '10376838', 'title': 'gdhB, a gene encoding a second quinoprotein glucose dehydrogenase in Pantoea citrea, is required for pink disease of pineapple.', 'year': '1999'}>
<Hit {'abstract_text': 'Trichoderma (teleomorph Hypocrea) is a fungal genus found in many ecosystems. Trichoderma spp. can reduce the severity of plant diseases by inhibiting plant pathogens in the soil through their highly potent antagonistic and mycoparasitic activity. Moreover, as revealed by research in recent decades, some Trichoderma strains can interact directly with roots, increasing plant growth potential, resistance to disease and tolerance to abiotic stresses. This mini-review summarizes the main findings concerning the Trichoderma-plant interaction, the molecular dialogue between the two organisms, and the dramatic changes induced by the beneficial fungus in the plant. Efforts to enhance plant resistance and tolerance to a broad range of stresses by expressing Trichoderma genes in the plant genome are also addressed.', 'journal': 'Microbiology (Reading, England)', 'mesh_major': ['Antibiosis', 'Fungal Proteins', 'Plant Development', 'Plant Diseases', 'Plants', 'Soil Microbiology', 'Trichoderma'], 'pmid': '21998166', 'title': 'Plant-beneficial effects of Trichoderma and of its genes.', 'year': '2012'}>
<Hit {'abstract_text': 'Although the great majority of bacteria found in nature live in multispecies communities, microbiological studies have focused historically on single species or competition and antagonism experiments between different species. Future directions need to focus much more on microbial communities in order to better understand what is happening in the wild. We are using olive knot disease as a model to study the role and interaction of multispecies bacterial communities in disease establishment/development. In the olive knot, non-pathogenic bacterial species (e.g. Erwinia toletana) co-exist with the pathogen (Pseudomonas savastanoi pv. savastanoi); we have demonstrated cooperation among these two species via quorum sensing (QS) signal sharing. The outcome of this interaction is a more aggressive disease when co-inoculations are made compared with single inoculations. In planta experiments show that these two species co-localize in the olive knot, and this close proximity most probably facilitates exchange of QS signals and metabolites. In silico recreation of their metabolic pathways showed that they could have complementing pathways also implicating sharing of metabolites. Our microbiome studies of nine olive knot samples have shown that the olive knot community possesses great bacterial diversity; however. the presence of five genera (i.e. Pseudomonas, Pantoea, Curtobacterium, Pectobacterium and Erwinia) can be found in almost all samples.', 'journal': 'Microbiology (Reading, England)', 'mesh_major': ['Bacteria', 'Bacterial Infections', 'Metabolic Networks and Pathways', 'Metagenome', 'Microbiota', 'Olea', 'Plant Diseases', 'Pseudomonas'], 'pmid': '24421406', 'title': 'Bacterial multispecies studies and microbiome analysis of a plant disease.', 'year': '2014'}>
<Hit {'abstract_text': 'Human campylobacteriosis, caused by the zoonotic bacteria Campylobacter jejuni and Campylobacter coli, remains a major cause of gastroenteritis worldwide. For many countries the implementation of effective interventions to reduce the burden of this disease is a high priority. Nucleotide sequence-based typing, including multilocus sequence typing (MLST) and antigen gene sequence typing (AGST), has provided unified, comprehensive, and portable Campylobacter isolate characterization, with curated databases of genotypes available (pubMLST.org/campylobacter). Analyses of large collections of isolates from various sources with these approaches have provided many insights into the epidemiology of these ubiquitous and diverse organisms. C. jejuni and C. coli populations are structured into clonal complexes, which reflect genealogy and are associated with specific phenotypes, e.g. the predisposition to infect particular animals, a property that has permitted the development of genetic means of attributing isolates from human disease to potential sources. This has identified retail meat, and especially chicken, as the likely cause of most human disease in many countries, although some human isolates have other likely origins. Such data have led directly to effective intervention studies and will be important in ongoing targeting of intervention strategies and the monitoring of their effectiveness. MLST and AGST data have also been employed in epidemiological investigations and studies of Campylobacter evolution and population biology. The sequence databases that have been established are compatible with the whole-genome sequencing (WGS) approaches likely to be implemented soon; indeed, the hierarchical approach adopted by MLST and AGST will be essential for the exploitation of WGS data.', 'journal': 'Microbiology (Reading, England)', 'mesh_major': ['Animals', 'Bacterial Typing Techniques', 'Campylobacter Infections', 'Campylobacter coli', 'Campylobacter jejuni', 'Databases, Nucleic Acid', 'Humans'], 'pmid': '22986295', 'title': 'Campylobacter sequence typing databases: applications and future prospects.', 'year': '2012'}>
<Hit {'abstract_text': 'Campylobacter jejuni is the most common bacterial cause of foodborne disease in the developed world. Its general physiology and biochemistry, as well as the mechanisms enabling it to colonize and cause disease in various hosts, are not well understood, and new approaches are required to understand its basic biology. High-throughput sequencing technologies provide unprecedented opportunities for functional genomic research. Recent studies have shown that direct Illumina sequencing of cDNA (RNA-seq) is a useful technique for the quantitative and qualitative examination of transcriptomes. In this study we report RNA-seq analyses of the transcriptomes of C. jejuni (NCTC11168) and its rpoN mutant. This has allowed the identification of hitherto unknown transcriptional units, and further defines the regulon that is dependent on rpoN for expression. The analysis of the NCTC11168 transcriptome was supplemented by additional proteomic analysis using liquid chromatography-MS. The transcriptomic and proteomic datasets represent an important resource for the Campylobacter research community.', 'journal': 'Microbiology (Reading, England)', 'mesh_major': ['Bacterial Proteins', 'Campylobacter jejuni', 'Gene Expression Profiling', 'Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial', 'RNA Polymerase Sigma 54', 'RNA, Bacterial'], 'pmid': '21816880', 'title': 'Quantitative RNA-seq analysis of the Campylobacter jejuni transcriptome.', 'year': '2011'}>
<Hit {'abstract_text': "Knowledge on the proteome level about the adaptation of pathogenic mycobacteria to the environment in their natural hosts is limited. Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis (MAP) causes Johne's disease, a chronic and incurable granulomatous enteritis of ruminants, and has been suggested to be a putative aetiological agent of Crohn's disease in humans. Using a comprehensive LC-MS-MS and 2D difference gel electrophoresis (DIGE) approach, we compared the protein profiles of clinical strains of MAP prepared from the gastrointestinal tract of diseased cows with the protein profiles of the same strains after they were grown in vitro. LC-MS-MS analyses revealed that the principal enzymes for the central carbon metabolic pathways, including glycolysis, gluconeogenesis, the tricaboxylic acid cycle and the pentose phosphate pathway, were present under both conditions. Moreover, a broad spectrum of enzymes for β-oxidation of lipids, nine of which have been shown to be necessary for mycobacterial growth on cholesterol, were detected in vivo and in vitro. Using 2D-DIGE we found increased levels of several key enzymes that indicated adaptation of MAP to the host. Among these, FadE5, FadE25 and AdhB indicated that cholesterol is used as a carbon source in the bovine intestinal mucosa; the respiratory enzymes AtpA, NuoG and SdhA suggested increased respiration during infection. Furthermore higher levels of the pentose phosphate pathway enzymes Gnd2, Zwf and Tal as well as of KatG, SodA and GroEL indicated a vigorous stress response of MAP in vivo. In conclusion, our results provide novel insights into the metabolic adaptation of a pathogenic mycobacterium in its natural host.", 'journal': 'Microbiology (Reading, England)', 'mesh_major': ['Adaptation, Physiological', 'Animals', 'Bacterial Proteins', 'Cattle', 'Chromatography, Liquid', 'Electrophoresis, Gel, Two-Dimensional', 'Gastrointestinal Tract', 'Metabolic Networks and Pathways', 'Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis', 'Paratuberculosis', 'Proteome', 'Tandem Mass Spectrometry'], 'pmid': '23223439', 'title': 'Metabolic adaptation of Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis to the gut environment.', 'year': '2013'}>
<Hit {'abstract_text': 'Black spot caused by Alternaria brassicicola is an important fungal disease affecting cruciferous crops, including Korean cabbage (Brassica rapa subsp. pekinensis). The interaction between Arabidopsis thaliana and Alt. brassicicola is a representative model system, and objective estimation of disease progression is indispensable for accurate functional analyses. Five strains caused black spot symptom progression on Korean cabbage and Ara. thaliana ecotype Col-0. In particular, challenge with the strains Ab44877 and Ab44414 induced severe black spot progression on Korean cabbage. Ab44877 was also highly infective on Col-0; however, the virulence of Ab44414 and the remaining strains on Col-0 was lower. To unveil the relationship between mycelial growth in the infected tissues and symptom progression, we have established a reliable quantification method using real-time PCR that employs a primer pair and dual-labelled probe specific to a unigene encoding A. brassicicola SCYTALONE DEHYDRATASE1 (AbSCD1), which is involved in fungal melanin biosynthesis. Plotting the crossing point values from the infected tissue DNA on a standard curve revealed active fungal ramification of Ab44877 in both host species. In contrast, the proliferation rate of Ab44414 in Korean cabbage was 3.8 times lower than that of Ab44877. Massive infective mycelial growth of Ab44877 was evident in Col-0; however, inoculation with Ab44414 triggered epiphytic growth rather than actual in planta ramification. Mycelial growth did not always coincide with symptom development. Our quantitative evaluation system is applicable and reliable for the objective estimation of black spot disease severity. ', 'journal': 'Microbiology (Reading, England)', 'mesh_major': ['Alternaria', 'Arabidopsis', 'Brassica rapa', 'Fungal Proteins', 'Mycelium', 'Plant Diseases', 'Virulence'], 'pmid': '23842466', 'title': 'Quantification of Alternaria brassicicola infection in the Arabidopsis thaliana and Brassica rapa subsp. pekinensis.', 'year': '2013'}>
<Hit {'abstract_text': 'Yersinia pestis has a flea-mammal-flea transmission cycle, and is a zoonotic pathogen that causes the systemic diseases bubonic and septicaemic plague in rodents and humans, as well as pneumonic plague in humans and non-human primates. Bubonic and pneumonic plague are quite different diseases that result from different routes of infection. Manganese (Mn) acquisition is critical for the growth and pathogenesis of a number of bacteria. The Yfe/Sit and/or MntH systems are the two prominent Mn transporters in Gram-negative bacteria. Previously we showed that the Y. pestis Yfe system transports Fe and Mn. Here we demonstrate that a mutation in yfe or mntH did not significantly affect in vitro aerobic growth under Mn-deficient conditions. A yfe mntH double mutant did exhibit a moderate growth defect which was alleviated by supplementation with Mn. No short-term energy-dependent uptake of (54)Mn was observed in this double mutant. Like the yfeA promoter, the mntH promoter was repressed by both Mn and Fe via Fur. Sequences upstream of the Fur binding sequence in the yfeA promoter converted an iron-repressible promoter to one that is also repressed by Mn and Fe. To our knowledge, this is the first report identifying cis promoter elements needed to alter cation specificities involved in transcriptional repression. Finally, the Y. pestis yfe mntH double mutant had an ~133-fold loss of virulence in a mouse model of bubonic plague but no virulence loss in the pneumonic plague model. This suggests that Mn availability, bacterial Mn requirements or Mn transporters used by Y. pestis are different in the lungs (pneumonic plague) compared with systemic disease.', 'journal': 'Microbiology (Reading, England)', 'mesh_major': ['Animals', 'Artificial Gene Fusion', 'Bacterial Proteins', 'Cation Transport Proteins', 'Disease Models, Animal', 'Gene Deletion', 'Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial', 'Genes, Reporter', 'Humans', 'Manganese', 'Membrane Transport Proteins', 'Mice', 'Plague', 'Promoter Regions, Genetic', 'Repressor Proteins', 'Survival Analysis', 'Virulence', 'Virulence Factors', 'Yersinia pestis', 'beta-Galactosidase'], 'pmid': '22222497', 'title': 'Manganese transporters Yfe and MntH are Fur-regulated and important for the virulence of Yersinia pestis.', 'year': '2012'}>
